(3) PAPER WEAKNESSES
   Overall, theories related to signal processing and system dynamic are
   just forgotten in the analysis of the issue and discussion.
   Then, the technical accuracy has a lack related to the widely known
   theoretical foundations.
x   I have also an issue on the learning curve impact on each experiment. In
   the experimental protocol, we don't see any training phase.

x   In the introduction, always define the accronyme such as 'Visual Impaired
   (VI)'. HRTF has to be also defined as VI and any other accronym in the
   paper.
x   In the introduction, Fitts’s Law is a psychomotor behavior law NOT
   related to HCI (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychophysics).
   However, HCI uses it, as other related fields.
x   p.2 line 35: 'accuracy and has has been', two has
x   Section 4, 'in this work, Only'
x   Section 4, 'The audio is...' : the audio itself cannot be. The audio
   signal is a sinusoidal waveform.
?   In this first paragraph, you should explain if you are using frequency
   modulation or any other type of modulation.
?   'simple to manipulate': explain the manipulation in simple words before
   the exact definition.
?   The operation of pitch and tone on a sinusoidal waveform has to be
   explained.
?   Justification of bone-conducting choice is not clear. What is the link
   between bone-conduction and tone/pitch ?
?   Bone conduction, as any other rigid structure, let only pass low
   frequency like a low-pass filter. What is a elevated sound source in
   signal processing theory ?
?   In 4.1, add the mathematical equation of the 'tone' operation for
   selecting the pan direction.
x   In 4.2, add the mathematical equation of the operation.
x   For the high and low tone, you should explain why there is a natural
   association. You should give an exemple.
?   In 4.2, add the cutoff frequency of the bone-conduction structure and the
   cutoff frequency of the headphones device.
?   In 5.1, add the ethic approval from your insitution and any condition on
   the protection of participants.
?   In 5.2, you has to add a figure for each experimental protocol in the
   study.
?   Fig. 7 seems to be not at the correct place and should be move near the
   first reference in the manuscript.
?   Fig. 5 should be redrawn.
?   On Fig. 8, what is the error measurment on the time ? I mean: time for
   the overhead, context switching, time to access hardware (such as SSD,
   WiFi), etc. Is the measurement timestamp or not ?


   References:
   The number of cited papers over the pass 6 years is low: some other
   research could be done in parallel.
   Some references have missing information: 4, 5, 13, 16, etc.

Questions to authors

   See (3) in the review.
